# VAWT_Btech_Project
Energy is something for which we crave throughout our life; And yes! You are correct our   project is about energy. The underlying motivation of this project is a desire to advance the technology necessary for a sustainable energy future. We all know the harm that CO2 emission has done to life on earth; so we have to search for a more sustainable alternative like wind energy. Study of India’s wind potential was carried out by the prof. Jami Hoossain of TERI Delhi and proposed that India has more than 2000GW capacity; it was revalidated in 2012 by Lawrence Berkeley national laboratory. Revised estimation by 49,130 MW to 302,000MW assessed at 100m hub height. India has goal of achieving 175GW by wind power only. Here we are trying to achieve some goals such that the wind energy will not be available only through the on grid connections but also through the off grid connection. The best way to achieve this is to use VAWT, which can be operated at very low wind speed and not like HAWT which requires high speed to produce power. We are trying to achieve the benefit of combination of savonius and darrieus VAWT, such that they will start at low speed and will produce the high power at high speed and more power than that of standalone savonius or darrieus turbine. Here we are trying to check the use aero foil named S1210 and its effect on the power output. At the same time we are using the helical shape of Both VAWT and we are checking its usefulness. Again to check that is it possible to use the rapid prototyping for the specified materials for VAWT we are answering here, is it worth to use rapid prototyping ?Which material can be used here in VAWT design such that the overall weight will be lesser and output characteristics of that. Again we are studying the use of Deflectors and concentrators and answering the questions like are they useful to invest? Do they really change the output of the turbine? What shape and size they should have for optimization of the turbine. The speed of savonius is somewhat came out to be 120 RPM and  that of Darrieus turbine to be 57 RPM at 5 m/s ,separately, and when combined the speed came out to be 80 RPM , so we were able to achieve our goals. 
